---
layout: post
title: Beacons
date: 2017-09-07 15:34
author: gurnoor
comments: true
categories: [Daily Diary]
---
<p id="f0c5" class="graf graf--p graf-after--h3"><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">How is Beacon technology different from Wi-Fi?</strong></p>

<ol>
 	<li><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Effect on device battery: </strong>Communication done between mobile and beacon is done via <strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Bluetooth</strong>. When both devices communicate using bluetooth, the devices consume approximately 4% less power as compared to the Wi-Fi, thus helps in extended battery life.</li>
</ol>
<ol class="postList">
 	<li id="4aca" class="graf graf--li graf-after--li"><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Consumer Privacy: </strong>Beacons technology requires customer to allow location detection through the mobile application and opt-in to receive notifications by turning on their device’s bluetooth. In the case of Wi-Fi, it doesn’t explicitly ask consumer for their permission.</li>
 	<li id="b49e" class="graf graf--li graf-after--li"><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Compatibility with devices: </strong>According to statistics, 80% of iPhones and 30% of Android devices are compatible with beacons. While 50% of Android phones, 45% of iPhones and 7% of other smart devices are compatible with Wi-Fi.</li>
 	<li id="fc82" class="graf graf--li graf-after--li"><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Implementation: </strong>Beacon implementation has 3 steps : installation, app development and management. Beacons required a mobile application to communicate. Wi-Fi doesn’t require any app development however the installation and management stage takes more effort and time.</li>
 	<li id="2c05" class="graf graf--li graf-after--li"><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Cost to implement: </strong>Beacons are cheaper and easy to implement. Wi-Fi routers are expensive and to manage traffic complex configuration is required.</li>
 	<li id="5868" class="graf graf--li graf-after--li"><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Power Consumption: </strong>Wi-Fi routers consumes more electricity than beacons.</li>
 	<li id="8dcf" class="graf graf--li graf-after--li graf--trailing"><strong class="markup--strong markup--li-strong">Accuracy</strong>: Accuracy refers to the reliability of the signal within a given range. Beacons are typically more accurate indoors than WiFi because the portable nature of the beacon transmitters allow the signal refraction and poor reception zones.</li>
</ol>
